
Title: TrickPlay IDE Editor Reference

The TrickPlay IDE includes a full-featured text editor for the creation of program source files.

(see images/IdeEditorWindow.png)

Topic: The Editor Window

The Editor Window displays the contents of a text source file. Multiple files can be loaded simultaneously. Each loaded file is represented by a tab along the top of the window. Select a file's tab to view the file's contents in the Editor Window.

A new and empty source file can be created by selecting the File->Create new file... menu item.

A new project can be started by selecting the File->Create new app... menu item. When creating a new project, the IDE will prompt for the location of the project's source files. The selected directory should be empty and not contain an existing application. After specifying the project's directory, the IDE creates a default app file and an empty main.lua file.

To load an existing project, select the File->Open existing app... menu item. The IDE will prompt for the location of the project's source files. The selected application's source files are then listed in the IDE's File System Window. To view and edit a source file in the Editor Window, double-click the file's name in the File System Window.

To save a file, select the File->Save file or File->Save file as... menu item. To save all files that have been modified, select the File->Save all files menu item.

To close a source file, click on the X graphic on the file's tab above the Editor Window or select the File->Close file menu item. If the file has been modified, you will be queried whether you wish to save the file or close without saving.

Topic: Editing Text

All the common editing commands are provided in the Editor Window.

After a source file has been modified in the editor, an asterisk will appear in front of the file's name in its tab.

To undo the last operation, select the Edit->Undo menu item. To redo an action that you just undid, select the Edit->Redo menu item.

To remove the currently-selected text, select the Edit->Cut menu item. The removed text is saved in the Editor's clipboard; it can be retrieved and inserted at the current cursor position by selecting the Edit->Paste menu item. To remove selected text without saving it in the clipboard, select the Edit->Delete menu item.

To copy the currently-selected text, select the Edit->Copy menu item. The copied text is saved in the Editor's clipboard and can be retrieved by selecting the Edit->Paste menu item.

To insert the text stored in the Editor's clipboard at the current cursor position, select the Edit->Paste menu item.

To select all the text in a file, select the Edit->Select all menu item.

To locate some particular text in a file, select the Edit->Find/Replace... menu item. A Find/Replace dialog box will display. Specify the text you wish to locate in the Find: field and set any desired search options. Press the Find button to initiate the search. If the text is found, it is displayed and highlighted in the Editor Window. To find the next occurrence of the text, press the Find button again. When you have finished searching, close the Search dialog by pressing the Close button.

To replace text in a file, select the Edit->Find/Replace... menu item. A Find/Replace dialog box will display. Enter the text you wish to replace in the Find: field and its replacement text in the Replace with: field. Set any additional options. Press the Replace Find button to replace the currently found text. Press the Replace button to find and replace the next matching occurrence. Press the Replace All button to find and replace all occurrences of the matching text in the current file. When you have finished finding and replacing text, close the dialog by pressing the Close button.

To jump to a particular line in the file, select the Edit->Go to line... menu item. A Go-to-Line dialog box will display. Enter the line number you wish to jump to and press the OK button. To abort the operation and close the dialog, press the Cancel button.

