                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                             
Title: Trickplay EditorGroup: The BasicsTopic: IntroOur graphical UI editor is the simplest way to create a layout and design for your application. It combines drag and drop simplicity with powerful dynamic code creation to help you get up and running quickly on the Trickplay Platform. If you have any specific questions relating to syntax or LUA, refer to the Application Developers Documentation. Keyboard shortcuts are included in the 'Shortcuts' section. For tips on selecting objects, see 'Selecting Objects' under 'Shortcuts'.Topic: The Top Menu BarThe Top Menu Bar behaves like any other graphics program. It has 4 headings. File, edit, arrange and settings. In order to show and hide the Top Menu Bar, press the 'm' key.Topic: The InspectorOpen the inspector by double-clicking or right clicking on any object. In the inspector you can edit the files properties including but not limited to opacity, dimensions and file name. Topic: Working Directory
The 'trickplay-editor' directory has been created in your home directory. When you create a new project, a folder is created in the 'trickplay-editor' directory to store all of your working files. If you wish to access an image, video or LUA file, place it in the project's directory.
Topic: Moving ObjectsObjects can be moved in several different ways. You can click and drag them, or double-click them to bring up the inspector in order to manually specify X and Y coordinates. You may also use the 'Arrange' function to line up objects. See 'Selecting Objects' under 'Shortcuts' for selecting multiple objects.
Group: The Top Menu BarThe Top Menu Bar is your central control panel for basic functions in the Trickplay UI Editor.Topic: FileBasic file modification and quit. 'File' is where you can save, open and create new files, as well as quitting and saving a file under a new name (Save As).File has 6 different options:New - Closes the current LUA file and creates a new one.Open - Opens an existing LUA file for editing.Save - Saves the current LUA file you are working on. If you have not yet named the file, you will be prompted to do so upon saving.Save As - Saves the current LUA file under a different name than the original.Quit - Exits the Editor.Topic: EditEdit contains the undo and redo options as well as insert and grouping tools. In order to insert an image or video the file must be located in your project directory. Your project directory is located in your home directory under trickplay-editor/project-name.Edit has 10 different options:Undo - Undoes the last change, steps backward.Redo - Redoes the last Undo, steps forward.Text - Inserts text.Image - Inserts an image. You must enter the file name and path to that file.Rectangle - Allows you to draw a rectangle by clicking and dragging on the space.Video - Inserts a video. You must enter the file name and path to that file.Delete - Deletes any objects you have selected.Clone - Clones any objects you have selected.Group - Groups objects together. You may select multiple objects by Shift-clicking.Ungroup - Ungroups.Topic: ArrangeSelecting multiple objects and selecting their type of arrangement can arrange objects. The first object selected will act as a guide. If you were to select 3 objects spread across a surface horizontally, selecting 'Arrange > Left' would align all of the objects to the first objects left side.Arrange has 13 different options:Left - Aligns objects to the left side of the first selected object.Right - Aligns objects to the right side of the first selected object.Top - Aligns objects to the top side of the first selected object.Bottom - Aligns objects to the bottom side of the first selected object.Align Horizontally Center - Aligns objects to the horizontal centre of the first selected object.Align Vertically Center - Aligns objects to the vertical centre of the first selected object.
Distribute Horizontally - Distributes objects horizontally.
Distribute Vertically - Distributes objects vertically.Bring to Front - Brings the object to the front of the stack of objects.Bring Forward - Brings the object one step forward in the stack of objects.Send to Back - Sends the object to the back of the stack of objects.Send Backward - Sends the object one step backward in the stack of objects.
Topic: SettingSettings helps you control your working environment. A transparency grid increases visibility when you are working with objects with low opacity.Settings has 5 different options:

Background Image - Lets you add a custom background image.Transparency Grid 20 - Shows a 20x20 pixel grid in the background.Transparency Grid 40 - Shows a 40x40 pixel grid in the background.Transparency Grid 80 - Shows a 80x80 pixel grid in the background.White - Shows a white background that covers the entire screen.Black - Shows a black background that covers the entire screen.

Topic: Help (?)

The Help button (?) shows you where you can locate the Trickplay Documentation.
Group: The InspectorThe inspector allows you to quickly edit attributes of the object. You can set many options, including but not limited to: positioning (X, Y, Z), color, border, rotation, anchor point and opacity. Topic: View CodeYou can also 'View Code'. This allows you a quick look at how the LUA code is being written for the selected object.Topic: Dynamic AttributesThe inspector is dynamic, and options displayed depend on what attributes that object has. For example, a video has 'Volume' attributes, whereas an image does not.Topic: ApplyingYou must apply the settings you modify in the inspector by clicking 'Apply' before closing the window.Group: ShortcutsShortcuts help you quickly repeat certain tasks.Topic: Keyboard ShortcutsFile:
New - nOpen - oSave - sSave As - aQuit - qEdit:Undo - uRedo - eText - tImage - iRectangle - rDelete - DeleteClone - cGroup - g

Topic: Selecting Objects

Misc:

Show/Hide Top Menu Bar - m
Shift-Click - Select multiple objects
Shift-Click and Drag - Select multiple objects
Control-Click - Select an object within a group