Topic: Create Screen Layout using Rectangles

Our application's screen layout will be divided into several areas. One method to accomplish this is by placing rectangles of various colors and transparencies over the background image. This section describes the process.

1. Select the Edit->Insert UI Element menu item. From the UI Elements dialog box, select Rectangle.

(see images/EdUiElementsRect.png)

When you click the Rectangle button, the dialog will close and the cursor will change to a cross-hair graphic. Position the cursor where you wish to place one corner of your rectangle. Click and drag the mouse to the rectangle's opposite corner. The cursor can be moved in any direction: left, right, up, or down. Release the mouse button and the rectangle will be created in the Editor's workspace.

(see images/EdCreateRect.png)

2. Right-click on the rectangle to display its Inspector dialog.

(see images/EdRectInspector.png)

In the Object Name field, enter "RectTop." Set the X, Y, and Z fields to 0. The width should take up the entire screen width, so set the W field to 1920. This rectangle will fill only the top portion of the display, so set the height in the H field to 180.

The Opacity field specifies the object's transparency level; values range from 0 (completely transparent) to 255 (completely opaque). For this demonstration, set the Opacity field to 100.

The rectangle's Fill Color can be set to any valid RGB value. For this rectangle, set the RGB settings to (25, 25, 25).

3. Press the OK button to save the settings. The rectangle will display in the Editor's workspace using the new settings.

(see images/EdTopSection.png)

4. Insert another rectangle to define a section at the bottom of the screen. Select the Edit->Insert UI Element menu and the Rectangle button. With the cross-hair cursor, click-and-drag a rectangle of any size. Right-click the rectangle to view its Inspector dialog. Set the following fields of the rectangle.

- Object Name: RectBottom
- X, Y, Z: 0, 900, 0
- W, H: 1920, 180
- Opacity: 100
- Fill Color RGB: 25, 25, 25

Press the OK button to save the settings and display the modified rectangle.

5. Let's put a title on the screen. Select the Edit->Insert UI Element menu again, but this time click the Text button. A text element will be inserted in the center of the Editor workspace. You should see a caret cursor. Type the screen's title of "Language". Right-click the text to display the object's Inspector window. Set the following fields.

- Object Name: Title
- W, H: 600, 100
- Font: DejaVu Sans 72px

Click OK to accept the new settings. Click-and-drag the text element to position it in the upper-left corner of the workspace. Place it within the top rectangle that you created earlier. The Editor menu bar is covering part of our top rectangle; you can hide the menu by pressing the <M> key. After the text element is positioned in a desirable location, you can redisplay the menu bar by pressing the <M> key again.

The screen layout now has a title and three sections: an upper section and a lower section (both defined by the two rectangles) and a main central area.

(see images/EdLayout.png)

