Topic: SDK Visual Editor Menus

At the top of the SDK Visual Editor window is the Editor menu bar.

(see images/EdMenus.png)

The display of the menu bar can be toggled between <Show> and <Hide> by pressing the <M> key.

Each of the menus and menu items are described briefly below. Additional details will be provided as we progress through the tutorial.

File:
New - Open a new, empty screen
Open... - Open an existing screen
Save... - Save current screen
Save As... - Save current screen to a specified file name
New Project... - Open a new, empty project
Open Project... - Open an existing project
Quit - Exit the SDK Visual Editor

Edit:
Undo - Undo the last operation
Redo - Reapply the last operation that was undone
Insert UI Element... - Add a new user interface element (UI Element) to the screen
Timeline... - Add a timeline to the screen
Delete - Delete the selected UI element(s)
Duplicate - Create new object(s) of the same type as the selected object(s)
Clone - Create new Clone object(s) derived from the selected object(s)
Group - Group the selected objects
Ungroup - Remove any group associated with the selected objects

Arrange:
Align - Header for list of alignment menu items
. Left - Align selected objects along the left edge of the anchor element
. Right - Align selected objects along the right edge of the anchor element
. Top - Align selected objects along the top edge of the anchor element
. Bottom - Align selected objects along the bottom edge of the anchor element
. Horizontal Center - Align selected objects along the horizontal center of the anchor element
. Vertical Center - Align selected objects along the vertical center of the anchor element

Distribute - Header for list of UI element distribution menu items
. Horizontally - Equally distribute the selected objects along the screen's horizontal axis
. Vertically - Equally distribute the selected objects along the screen's vertical axis

Arrange - Header for list of menu items that control the screen's Z-order
. Bring to Front - Move selected object to the front of the screen's Z-order
. Bring Forward - Advance selected object one entry toward the front of the screen's Z-order
. Send to Back - Move selected object to the end of the screen's Z-order
. Send Backward - Move selected object one entry toward the rear of the screen's Z-order

View:
Background - Header for list of supported background elements. All of these items are displayed within the SDK Visual Editor only and will not be displayed when the application is run with the TrickPlay Engine.
. Image... - Select a background image to display on the Editor's screen
. Small Grid - Display a small grid on the Editor's screen
. Medium Grid - Display a medium grid on the Editor's screen
. Large Grid - Display a large grid on the Editor's screen
. White - Display a white background on the Editor's screen
. Black - Display a black background on the Editor's screen
Guides - Header for list of supported guideline behaviors
. Add Horizontal Guide - Add a new and moveable horizontal guideline
. Add Vertical Guide - Add a new and moveable vertical guideline
. Show Guides - Toggle the display of any horizontal and vertical guidelines
. Snap to Guides - Toggle whether or not UI elements will snap to the screen's guides and grid edges when manually positioning elements

